# MapReduce

## Exercises

<details>
  <summary>Exercise 0: Word count.</summary>

Tutorial from: https://www.michael-noll.com/tutorials/writing-an-hadoop-mapreduce-program-in-python/.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Exercise 1: Search for maximun and minimun temperature.</summary>

- Find the place where it was the hottest and the coldest in 2017. Indicate the name of the city along with the
  temperature.

- We will use data from daily measurements provided by the NCDC (National Climate Center - NOAA).

- Using those from the following directory: `data/exercise_1`
  _(source ftp://ftp.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/uscrn/products/daily01/2017/)_.

- It is considered hot if the temperature is above 27ยบC and cold if the temperature is below -1ยบ C.

- The following file explains the organization of the files: `docs/exercise_1.txt`
  _(source ftp://ftp.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/uscrn/products/daily01/README.txt)_.

- Perform the exercises forcing 2 or more reducers.

- A simple code must be implemented to obtain the final result from the files generated by from the files generated via
  the reducers.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Exercise 2: Web Client Logs.</summary>

- The files contain the HTTP request logs.

- The organization of the data is detailed in the document: `docs/exercise_2.txt`
  _(source ftp://gaia.cs.umass.edu/pub/zhzhang/Traces-More/html/BU-Web-Client.html)_.

- Using the files in the folder: `data/exercise_2`
  _(source ftp://ftp.town.hall.org/pub/ITA/traces/BU-www-client-traces.tar.gz)_.

    1. Extract the user who accessed the most files in `.ps` format. Show user and number of files accessed (in `.ps`
       format).

    2. Determine the most visited URL, indicating the total number of visits received.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Exercise 3: Wine quality.</summary>

- Use the data for the two types of wine: `data/exercise_3/winequality-white.csv` and `winequality-red.csv`
  from `data/exercise_3`
  _(source http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/wine-quality/)_.

- The organization of the data is detailed in the document: `docs/exercise_3.txt`
  _(source https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/wine-quality/winequality.names)_.

- The attributes of the columns are:
    1. Fixed acidity.
    2. Volatile acidity.
    3. Citric acid.
    4. Residual sugar.
    5. Chlorides.
    6. Free sulfur dioxide.
    7. Total sulfur dioxide.
    8. Density.
    9. pH.
    10. Sulfates.
    11. Alcohol.
    12. Quality.

- For each type of wine, extract the average of all the attributes collected in the files.

</details>

## Usage

Docker container up:

```sh
make up
```

Run exercise $n$, where $n \epsilon \{0, 1, 2, 3\}$:

```sh
make run exercise=n
```

Attach to Docker container:

```sh
make attach
```

Detach from Docker container:

```sh
CTRL-p CTRL-q
```

Docker container down:

```sh
make down
```

## License

GNU General Public License v3.0
